introduce `develop` section (#253)
compose-spec/compose-spec: development.md

# The Compose Specification - Development support
{:.no_toc}

> *Note:* Development support is an OPTIONAL part of the Compose Specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note:* Development support is an OPTIONAL part of the Compose Specification.
```
nit: full stop

* ToC
{:toc}

## Introduction

Compose specification is a platform-neutral way to define multi-container applications. A Compose implementation

> focussing on development use-case to run application on local machine will obviously also support some development hooks to improve developer velocity on his local workflow (also known as "inner loop"). The Compose Development specification allows to define how a Compose implementation SHOULD behave to efficiently assist the developer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
focusing on development use-case to run application on local machine should also support some development hooks to improve developer velocity on their local workflow (also known as "inner loop"). The Compose Development specification allows to define how a Compose implementation SHOULD behave to efficiently assist the developer.
```
some styling suggestions

## Definitions

Compose Specification is extended to support an OPTIONAL `development` subsection on services. This section

> defines the development constraints and workflows to be set bu a Compose Implementation to assist the developer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
defines the development constraints and workflows to be set by a Compose Implementation to assist the developer
```
typo

working on service codebase. Only a subset of Compose file services MAY define such a Development subsection.

## Illustrative sample

The following sample illustrates Compose specification concepts with a concrete sample application. The sample is non-normative.

```yaml
services:
  frontend:
    image: awesome/webapp
    build: ./webapp
    development:
      watch: 
        update: sync
        path: src:/app
        ignores:
            - node_modules/

  backend:
    image: awesome/backend
    build: ./backend
    development:
      watch: 
        update: build
      quiet-period: 5s

  db:
    image: awesome/database
    development:
      watch: sighup
```

## Developemnt mode definition

> The `dev` element define configuration options that are applied by Compose implementations to assist developer during development of a service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dev` element defines configuration options that are applied by Compose implementations to assist developer during development of a service.
```
typo

### watch

> `watch` can be specified either as a string containing policy or a detailed structure/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`watch` can be specified either as a string containing policy or a detailed structure.
```
typo

```yml
services:
  webapp:
    development: 
      watch: build
```
is equivalent to 

```yml
services:
  webapp:
    development: 
      watch: 
        policy: build
```

The `watch` attribute defines `update` policy to update a running service as Compose Implementation detects 
changes in service source code. "Source code" to watch is identified by the `build.context` section.

While Compose implementations can support custom values, the specification defines:
- `build`: rebuild service image based on the `build` section and restart the service with updated image

> - `sync`: synchronize source files with container content. `path` attribute is REQUIRED to define the mapping 

Reviewer: Could you elaborate a bit more on how this interacts with host mounts in `volumes`?

Author: This is intentionally unspecified so implementation can be flexible. Most obvious approach is to add an implicit bind mount for sources. For illustration, a classic nodeJS application uses a COPY directive in Dockerfile to add sources into /app folder. With such a sync directive, `docker compose dev` would add a new bind mount so that local sources override this /app folder and get synced inside container, assuming node runtime manages hot-reload.

Reviewer: Thank you for explaining 👍 My concern is that we are potentially adding another way to mount files into the containers to the spec without necessarily drawing a clear distinction for when users should do volumes and when they should be using `develop` section instead. Is there a use case that this would cover that volumes are not able to?

Reviewer 2: This is still unclear for me.

to apply for local files within service `build.context` and container's filesystem.
- `sighup`: send SIGHUP signal to container, to force a reload configuration/restart. This is typically used 
for daemon services

> If not explicitely configured, and service has a `build` section, then `build` MUST be set as the default policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not explicitly configured, and service has a `build` section, then `build` MUST be set as the default policy.
```
typo

Reviewer: This is potentially quite a big change in default behaviour. Does this mean that Compose implementations that do support `development` section will assume that all local images need to be rebuilt on each code change?

Author: this _tells_ compose implementation how it _could_ refresh an image by rebuilding. This is basically the "lowest common denominator". For compiled languages without incremental build capability there's no better choice. Other stacks _might_ offer smoother re-build scenario and we could then embrace those with dedicated policies.

The way a Compose Implementation exposes this to user is TO BE DEFINED by implementation (so that we don't prevent creativity :P). I assume only service image with some detected code change would be rebuilt on code change, and dependent service restarted

### ignores

The `ignores` attribute can be used to define a list of patterns for paths to be ignored. Any updated file 

> to match a pattern, or belong to a folder to match a pattern, won't trigger service to be re-created. The 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that matches a pattern, or belongs to a folder that matches a pattern, won't trigger service to be re-created. The 
```
something like this IMO provides better readability

syntax is the same as `.dockerignore` file: 

> - `*` match 0 or more characters in a file name. 

Reviewer: This list should probably say `matches` instead of `match`

- `?` macth a single character in file name. 
- `*/*` match two nested folders with arbitrary names
- `**` match an arbitrary number of nested folders

If the build context includes a `.dockerignore` file, the patterns in this file are loaded as implicit content

> for the `ignores` file, and values set in the compose model are appended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the `ignores` file, and values set in the Compose model are appended.
```

## Definitions

Compose Specification is extended to support an OPTIONAL `develop` subsection on services. This section
defines the development constraints and workflows to be set by a Compose Implementation to assist the developer
working on service codebase. Only a subset of Compose file services MAY define such a Development subsection.

## Illustrative sample

The following sample illustrates Compose specification concepts with a concrete sample application. The sample is non-normative.

```yaml
services:
  frontend:
    image: awesome/webapp
    build: ./webapp
    develop:
      watch: 
        ignores:
            - node_modules/
        quiet-period: 5s
        trigger: 
          # synchronize src with container's /app
          strategy: sync
          paths: 
            - src:/app

  backend:
    image: awesome/backend
    build: ./backend
    develop:
      watch: 
        # rebuild image and recreate service
        trigger: build

  db:
    image: awesome/database
    develop:
      watch: 
        trigger:
          strategy: sync
          # get service to reload configuration

>           signal: SIGHUP

Reviewer: Should this example include a path for what's being synced? According to the definition, build context would be used as a default but one is not defined here.

```

> ## Developemnt mode definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Development mode definition
```
typo

The `develop` element defines configuration options that are applied by Compose implementations to assist developer during development of a service.

### watch

The `watch` attribute defines strategy to be adopted to update a running service as Compose Implementation detects 
changes in service source code. "Source code" to watch is identified by the `build.context` section.

#### ignores

The `ignores` attribute can be used to define a list of patterns for paths to be ignored. Any updated file 
that matches a pattern, or belongs to a folder that matches a pattern, won't trigger service to be re-created. The 
syntax is the same as `.dockerignore` file: 

- `*` matches 0 or more characters in a file name. 
- `?` matches a single character in file name. 
- `*/*` matches two nested folders with arbitrary names
- `**` matches an arbitrary number of nested folders

If the build context includes a `.dockerignore` file, the patterns in this file are loaded as implicit content
for the `ignores` file, and values set in the Compose model are appended.

#### quiet_period

If a `quiet_period` is set, Compose Implementations MUST wait at least configured delay before actually refreshing

> service image. Using this allows to avoid service image to be re-created many times in a row as multiple files get

Reviewer: If this attribute applies to `sync` strategy too, then we should make this paragraph a bit more abstract. Currently, it focuses a lot on rebuilding the image.

updated.

#### trigger

> `trigger` define the actions to take place as changes have been detected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`trigger` defines the actions to take place as changes have been detected.
```
typo

Short syntax can be used to set the strategy name to be adopted by Compose Implementation. This allows to set simple
strategies which do not require additional configuration options:

```yaml
    develop:
      watch: 
        # rebuild image and recreate service
        trigger: build
```        

> Long-syntax allow user to pass additional configuration options, specific to selected strategy. `strategy` attribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Long-syntax allows user to pass additional configuration options, specific to selected strategy. `strategy` attribute
```
typo

is REQUIRED:

- `build` strategy will rebuild service image based on the `build` section and restart the service with updated image.

> - `sync` strategy keep existing service contianers running, but can synchronize source files with container content. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `sync` strategy keep existing service containers running, but can synchronize source files with container content. 
```
typo

> `paths` attribute can be set with `sync` strategy to define local files within service's `build.context` to be synchronized  with

Reviewer: This might be a bit confusing for end users if `source` for this attribute is relative to `build.context` but `source` for volumes is relative to Compose file location.
